Publish extension updates (#5698)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-uwp: hub/powertoys/command-palette/publish-extension.md

> MSIX is Microsoft's modern app packaging format that provides secure installation, automatic updates, and clean uninstallation. It replaces older formats like MSI and ensures your extension integrates properly with Windows security and deployment features.

Command Palette can't search for or install extensions that are only listed in the store. You can find those extensions by running the following command:

```cmd
ms-windows-store://assoc/?Tags=AppExtension-com.microsoft.commandpalette
```

You can run this command from the "Run commands" command in Command Palette, from the command line, or from the Run dialog.

## Guide to Microsoft Store publishing

Publishing to the Microsoft Store provides your extension with wide reach across Windows devices and automatic update delivery to users. This guide walks you through the complete process from setting up your Partner Center account to building MSIX packages and submitting your extension for certification. You'll learn how to prepare your extension's manifest files, create the required bundle packages, and navigate the Partner Center submission workflow to get your extension published successfully.

> [!NOTE]

> > This guide provides basic Microsoft Store publishing steps specific to Command Palette extensions. For comprehensive Microsoft Store publishing guidance, including detailed submission requirements, certification processes, and best practices, see [Publish Windows apps and games](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/apps/publish/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This guide provides basic Microsoft Store publishing steps specific to Command Palette extensions. For comprehensive Microsoft Store publishing guidance, including detailed submission requirements, certification processes, and best practices, see [Publish Windows apps and games](/windows/apps/publish/).
```

### Prerequisites

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **What is Partner Center?**
> Partner Center is Microsoft's portal for app developers to manage Microsoft Store submissions, track analytics, and handle app certification.

> - [Register as a Windows app developer in Partner Center](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/partner-center-developer-account)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Register as a Windows app developer in Partner Center](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/partner-center-developer-account)
```

> - Create all required app icons and ensure they're properly sized ([Create icons using Visual Studio's asset generation tool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/style/iconography/visual-studio-asset-generation))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create all required app icons and ensure they're properly sized ([Create icons using Visual Studio's asset generation tool](/windows/apps/design/style/iconography/visual-studio-asset-generation))
```

> - Create all required app icons and ensure they're properly sized ([Create icons using Visual Studio's asset generation tool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/style/iconography/visual-studio-asset-generation))

Author: add more information about required images (ideally find a doc, but if not then list it)

1. Under **Workspaces**, select **Apps and games**.
1. Select **+ New Product**.
1. Select **MSIX or PWA app**.
1. Create a name or reserve a product name.
1. Start the submission and complete as much as you can until you reach the **Packages** section.
1. In the left navigation, under **Product Management**, select **Product identity**.
1. Note the `Package/Identity/Name`, `Package/Identity/Publisher`, and `Package/Properties/PublisherDisplayName` for the following steps.

### Prepare the extension

1. In your IDE, open `<ExtensionName>\Package.appxmanifest`.
1. Update the publisher and publisher display name:

```xml
<Identity
    Name="TemplateCmdPalExtension" <!-- Replace with Package/Identity/Name -->
    Publisher="CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US" <!-- Replace with Package/Identity/Publisher -->
    Version="0.0.1.0" />

  <Properties>
    <DisplayName>TemplateDisplayName</DisplayName> <!-- Replace with the reserved name -->
    <PublisherDisplayName>A Lone Developer</PublisherDisplayName> <!-- Replace with Package/Properties/PublisherDisplayName -->
    <Logo>Assets\StoreLogo.png</Logo> <!-- Update -->
  </Properties>

> ```

Reviewer 2: Think this could use some extra clarity. The steps say to just update publisher and publisher display name, but the comments imply that all of these values need to be updated.

Also for StoreLogo, might be good to say that if logos were generated via the generation tool, then this value should already be correct.

This may be overly cautious, but people tend to get bogged down with partner center identity stuff, so might be good to over-explain.

Author: agree, this should be as explicit as possible for the smoothest dev experience, I'll test out the image tool again with a fresh build to see if I can recreate the issue

Author: I tried using the Manifest Designer tool and it generated all the images for me, not sure why your's didn't work

@zateutsch  can you create a new extension and test out the tool to see if it generates the following images:

| File Name                | Size       |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Square44x44Logo          | 44×44      |
| SmallTile.png            | 71×71      |
| Square150x150Logo        | 150×150    |
| LargeTile.png            | 310×310    |
| Wide310x150Logo          | 310×150    |
| SplashScreen             | 620×300    |
| StoreLogo                | 50×50      |

Author: I added another step to add:

```
<Target Name="PrepareAssets" BeforeTargets="BeforeBuild">
    <!-- Copy scale-specific assets to base filenames expected by store validations -->
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Square150x150Logo.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Square150x150Logo.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Square44x44Logo.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\SmallTile.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Wide310x150Logo.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Wide310x150Logo.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\SplashScreen.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\SplashScreen.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Square150x150Logo.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\LargeTile.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\StoreLogo.scale-100.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\StoreLogo.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
  </Target>
```

1. In your IDE, open `<ExtensionName>.csproj`.
1. Locate the `PropertyGroup` element and add the following properties:

```xml
    <AppxPackageIdentityName>Package/Identity/Name</AppxPackageIdentityName>
    <AppxPackagePublisher>CN=########-####-####-####-############</AppxPackagePublisher>
    <AppxPackageVersion>0.0.1.0</AppxPackageVersion>
```

### Build MSIX

1. In the terminal, move to the `<ExtensionName>\<ExtensionName>` directory.
1. Create an x64 build MSIX with the following command:

   ```powershell
   dotnet build --configuration Release -p:GenerateAppxPackageOnBuild=true -p:Platform=x64
   ```

1. Create an ARM64 build MSIX with the following command:

   ```powershell
   dotnet build --configuration Release -p:GenerateAppxPackageOnBuild=true -p:Platform=ARM64
   ```

1. Locate the MSIX files:

   ```powershell
   cd <ExtensionName>; dir bin -Recurse -Filter "*.msix"

>    ```

Reviewer 2: This command errors out if its run from the directory you previously had the user in. Don't think the `cd` is necessary.

Also my MSIX were in `AppPackages` not `bin`

```powershell
dir AppPackages -Recurse -Filter "*.msix"
```

Author: Your right, good call

1. Note the locations of the `<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_x64.msix` and `<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_arm64.msix` files.

> 1. Create a new `bundle_mapping.txt` file and include the following content, updating the paths to your MSIX files:

Reviewer 2: Might be good to specify which directory to create this text file, especially with ambiguity on previous step about which directory user might be in.

Author: ack

   ```text
   [Files]
   "bin\x64\Release\PATH\<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_x64.msix" "<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_x64.msix"
   "bin\ARM64\Release\PATH\<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_arm64.msix" "<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_arm64.msix"
   ```

1. Create a bundle that combines both architectures into a single package for Microsoft Store submission. Update the `<ExtensionName>` and `<VersionNumber>`:

   ```powershell
   makeappx bundle /v /d bin\Release\ /p <ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_Bundle.msixbundle
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If `makeappx` isn't recognized, check which version of Windows SDK you have installed:
   >
   > ```powershell
   > Get-ChildItem "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\WOW6432Node\Microsoft\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v*" | Select-Object PSChildName
   > ```
   >
   > Then update the following script with the version number:
   >
   > ```powershell
   > & "C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\<VersionNumber>\bin\[version]\x64\makeappx.exe" bundle /f bundle_mapping.txt /p <ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_Bundle.msixbundle

>    > ```

Reviewer 2: Think there needs to be a bit more clarity here on what these version numbers should be:
The first command returned `v10.0` for me, but the expected path val was `10`

I also assumed that those two version values were the same because the command returns just one - but my SDK version was `10.0.26100.0`

My full path ended up being `"C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\10\bin\10.0.26100.0\arm64\makeappx.exe` which might be hard to gather from these instructions.

Author: ekk, okay I'll most likey add a command line command to find makeappx and use that path in the script

### Requirements

- [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)
- WingetCreate

    ```powershell
    # Install wingetcreate if not already installed
    winget install Microsoft.WingetCreate
    
    # Verify installation
    wingetcreate --version
    ```

### Prepare the project

1. In `<ExtensionName>.csproj`, from the `<PropertyGroup>`:
   - Remove `<PublishProfile>win-$(Platform).pubxml</PublishProfile>`
   - Add `<WindowsPackageType>None</WindowsPackageType>`
1. `cd` into the directory that contains your `<ExtensionName>.cs`
1. Create a `build-exe.ps1` file, for a simple extension you can copy and customize the following:

**Template: `build-exe.ps1`**

```powershell
# TEMPLATE: PowerShell Build Script for Command Palette Extensions
#
# To use this template for a new extension:
# 1. Copy this file to your extension's project folder as "build-exe.ps1"
# 2. Replace EXTENSION_NAME with your extension name (e.g., CmdPalMyExtension)
# 2. Replace <VERSION> with your extension version (e.g., 0.0.1.0)
# 3. Update the default version to match your project file's AppxPackageVersion

> # 4. Ensure you have a setup-template.iss file in the same directory

Reviewer 2: Confusing that this is mentioned before we know about the `setup-template.iss` file.

```suggestion
```

Author: good call

param(
    [string]$Configuration = "Release",
    [string]$Version = "<VERSION>",  # UPDATE: Change this to match your project's default version
    [string]$Platform = "x64"

> )

Reviewer 2: Would remove the step about updating default version, as this should be covered by step above and was confused if there was something else to do, also probably remove the comment next to line 236.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# 4. Ensure you have a setup-template.iss file in the same directory

param(
    [string]$Configuration = "Release",
    [string]$Version = "<VERSION>",
    [string]$Platform = "x64"
)
```

Author: ack

>
> # build installer, this will take a while
> .\build-exe.ps1 -Version "0.0.1.0"
>
> # verify that <ExtensionName>-Setup-0.0.1.0.exe is listed
> Get-ChildItem "bin\Release\installer\" -File
> ```

### Automate with GitHub Actions

> [!NOTE]
> **What are GitHub Actions?**
> GitHub Actions is a CI/CD platform that automates software workflows directly in your GitHub repository. For Command Palette extensions, GitHub Actions can automatically build your installer whenever you push code changes, create releases, and even submit updates to WinGet - eliminating manual build steps and ensuring consistent, reproducible builds.

Now we'll set up GitHub Actions to automate the build and release process:

1. `cd ..` up a directory, you should be in the directory that contains `<ExtensionName>.sln`
1. create a new repo:

```powershell
mkdir .github/workflows
```

1. In the `workflows` directory, create a new file called `release-extension.yml`.
1. Add the following content to the new file:

```yml
# TEMPLATE: Extension EXE Installer Build and Release Workflow
# 
# To use this template for a new extension:
# 1. Copy this file to a new workflow file (e.g., release-myextension-exe.yml)

> # 2. Replace all instances of DEVELOPER_NAME with your developer name (e.g., Your Name Here)

Reviewer 2: Is this step necessary? Don't see any other occurrences of `DEVELOPER_NAME` in the file besides this comment.

```suggestion
```

Author: ooops, good catch!

### Microsoft Store submission

1. Navigate to the [Microsoft Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/home) and open your newly created extension project.
1. In **Packages**, upload the created MSIX bundle.
1. Complete the rest of the submission. The following suggestions can help you:
   1. In **Languages supported in packages**, under your supported language (for example, English (United States)), in **Description**, make sure to include `<ExtensionName> integrates with the Windows Command Palette to...`
   1. In the left navigation, locate **Supplemental info** and select **Additional Testing Information**. Add instructions about needing Powertoys and Command Palette. Here's an [example](https://github.com/chatasweetie/CmdPalExtensions/blob/main/microsoftStoreResources/TesterInstructions.txt).
1. Submit your extension to the store.

After submission, Microsoft will review your extension for certification. Monitor your submission status in Partner Center and check for email notifications about approval. Once approved, your extension will be available in the Microsoft Store within a few hours.

> ## WinGet

Author: @chatasweetie  this is only creating x64, we forgot ARM

Author: done

---
title: Publish Command Palette extensions
description: Learn how to publish Command Palette extensions to Microsoft Store and WinGet to share your custom experiences with users.
ms.date: 02/28/2025
ms.topic: how-to
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, Insider]
# Customer intent: As a Windows developer, I want to learn how to publish an extension for the Command Palette.
---

# Publish Command Palette extensions

> This article provides instructions for Command Palette extensions that were created using the Command Palette template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides instructions for Command Palette extensions that you create with the Command Palette template.
```

You can publish your Command Palette extension through the Microsoft Store, WinGet, or both. This article includes instructions for preparing and publishing your extension to both distribution platforms.

## Microsoft Store

> Command Palette extensions can be published to the Microsoft Store. The publishing process is similar to other apps or extensions. You create a new submission in Partner Center and upload your `.msix` package. Command Palette automatically discovers your extension when users install it from the Microsoft Store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can publish Command Palette extensions to the Microsoft Store. The publishing process is similar to other apps or extensions. You create a new submission in Partner Center and upload your `.msix` package. Command Palette automatically discovers your extension when users install it from the Microsoft Store.
```

> [!NOTE]
> **MSIX packages explained**

> > MSIX is Microsoft's modern app packaging format that provides secure installation, automatic updates, and clean uninstallation. It replaces older formats like MSI and ensures your extension integrates properly with Windows security and deployment features.

Reviewer 3: Link to MSIX docs-hub?

> Command Palette can't search for or install extensions that are only listed in the store. You can find those extensions by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Command Palette can't search for or install extensions that are only listed in the Store. You can find those extensions by running the following command:
```

```

You can run this command from the "Run commands" command in Command Palette, from the command line, or from the Run dialog.

## Guide to Microsoft Store publishing

Publishing to the Microsoft Store provides your extension with wide reach across Windows devices and automatic update delivery to users. This guide walks you through the complete process from setting up your Partner Center account to building MSIX packages and submitting your extension for certification. You'll learn how to prepare your extension's manifest files, create the required bundle packages, and navigate the Partner Center submission workflow to get your extension published successfully.

> [!NOTE]
> This guide provides basic Microsoft Store publishing steps specific to Command Palette extensions. For comprehensive Microsoft Store publishing guidance, including detailed submission requirements, certification processes, and best practices, see [Publish Windows apps and games](/windows/apps/publish/).

### Prerequisites

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **What is Partner Center?**
> Partner Center is Microsoft's portal for app developers to manage Microsoft Store submissions, track analytics, and handle app certification.

> - [Register as a Windows app developer in Partner Center](../../apps/publish/partner-center/partner-center-developer-account)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Register as a Windows app developer in Partner Center](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/partner-center-developer-account)
```

> - Create all required app icons and ensure they're properly sized ([Create icons using Visual Studio's asset generation tool](../../apps/design/style/iconography/visual-studio-asset-generation))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create all required app icons and ensure they're properly sized ([Create icons using Visual Studio's asset generation tool](/windows/apps/design/style/iconography/visual-studio-asset-generation))
```

> [!TIP]
> - [List of icons and variations](/windows/apps/design/style/iconography/app-icon-construction#complete-list-of-icons-and-variations)
> - Make sure you generate the following files:
>
> | File Name                | Size       |
> |--------------------------|------------|
> | Square44x44Logo          | 44×44      |
> | SmallTile                | 71×71      |
> | Square150x150Logo        | 150×150    |
> | LargeTile                | 310×310    |
> | Wide310x150Logo          | 310×150    |
> | SplashScreen             | 620×300    |
> | StoreLogo                | 50×50      |

### Set up Microsoft Store

> 1. Navigate to the [Microsoft Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/home).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Microsoft Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/home).
```

1. Under **Workspaces**, select **Apps and games**.
1. Select **+ New Product**.
1. Select **MSIX or PWA app**.

> 1. Create a name or reserve a product name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create or reserve a product name.
```

1. Start the submission and complete as much as you can until you reach the **Packages** section.
1. In the left navigation, under **Product Management**, select **Product identity**.
1. Copy the following values for use in the next steps:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Copy these values from Partner Center:**
>
> - **Package/Identity/Name**: `_________________`
> - **Package/Identity/Publisher**: `_________________`
> - **Package/Properties/PublisherDisplayName**: `_________________`
>

> > You'll use these exact values in the code examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Use these exact values in the code examples.
```

### Prepare the extension

1. In your IDE, open `<ExtensionName>\Package.appxmanifest`.

> 1. Replace the values with the information you copied from Partner Center:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the values with the information you copied from Partner Center.
```

> 1. Replace the values with the information you copied from Partner Center:

Reviewer 3: Is this what Visual Studio does when right-clicking on your project and clicking "Associcate with Store"?

If so, I'd push this flow as it's much easier to go through vs manually copying stuff?

Author: Things might have changed but when I chatted with Mike back in August he said not to use Visual Studio to build the MSIX files and to use a dot net command instead

@zadjii-msft is this still the case?

Reviewer 4: I've only ever personally used the `dotnet build` tools. Maybe I just have CLI-brainrot 🤷 

I haven't personally ever _actually_ built something for the Store, so maybe that option works cleaner?

Author: ack, gonna try it out building with visual studio and upload it to store to see if it passes the msix checks

Author: I tired building the msix using the "Package and Publish" → "Create App Packages" flow, but that wasn't listed as an option and I think it's because it doesn't have packaging (which when I look up, the internet suggest adding a "Windows Application Packaging Project". I think this is why when Mike & I tried building the MSIX we ended up using the CLI (and even with the CLI I still needed to add the store info to the project). I'm working on adding the missing content to the template as well as a script so the developer just runs the script, provides the store info and the script updates the .csproj & package.appxmanifest. If anyone else has done this I'm more than happy to get a VS -> Store publication

Reviewer 5: Dependency on `Microsoft.WindowsAppSDK.WinUI` is the secret ingredient for that submenu appear :(

Author: oh gawh! I added `<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.WindowsAppSDK">
  <PrivateAssets>all</PrivateAssets>
</PackageReference>` to my .csproj file and now I have the options 👀 I'll test it out, brb

Reviewer 5: Just to add some context: https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/38530#issuecomment-3248829800

Author: So yes, Create App Packages does appear with the added  Windows App SDK dependency (Microsoft.WindowsAppSDK.WinUI), but since this runs inside of command palette isn't it going to be an issue?

Reviewer 5: > runs inside of command palette

At least for now, each extension is a separate process.

```xml
<Identity

>     Name="YOUR_PACKAGE_IDENTITY_NAME_HERE" <!-- Replace with your Package/Identity/Name -->

Reviewer 5: This is invalid HTML syntax (HTML comment inside an HTML tag), which could disrupt syntax highlighting. I'm not sure if it affects MS Learn, but it definitely causes issues in GitHub.

Author: thanks

    Publisher="YOUR_PACKAGE_IDENTITY_PUBLISHER_HERE" <!-- Replace with your Package/Identity/Publisher -->
    Version="0.0.1.0" />

  <Properties>
    <DisplayName>YOUR_EXTENSION_DISPLAY_NAME</DisplayName> <!-- Replace with the reserved name from Partner Center -->
    <PublisherDisplayName>YOUR_PUBLISHER_DISPLAY_NAME_HERE</PublisherDisplayName> <!-- Replace with your Package/Properties/PublisherDisplayName -->
    <Logo>Assets\StoreLogo.png</Logo> <!-- Confirm that this image exist -->
  </Properties>
```

1. In your IDE, open `<ExtensionName>.csproj`.

> 1. Locate a `PropertyGroup` element (with no conditions) and add the following properties using your Partner Center values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Locate a `PropertyGroup` element (with no conditions) and add the following properties by using your Partner Center values:
```

```xml
    <AppxPackageIdentityName>YOUR_PACKAGE_IDENTITY_NAME_HERE</AppxPackageIdentityName>
    <AppxPackagePublisher>YOUR_PACKAGE_IDENTITY_PUBLISHER_HERE</AppxPackagePublisher>
    <AppxPackageVersion>0.0.1.0</AppxPackageVersion>
```

> 1. Update the ItemGroup for images to get all of them by removing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `ItemGroup` for images to get all of them by removing:
```

          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\SplashScreen.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\SplashScreen.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\Square150x150Logo.scale-200.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\LargeTile.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
    <Copy SourceFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\StoreLogo.scale-100.png"
          DestinationFiles="$(MSBuildProjectDirectory)\Assets\StoreLogo.png"
          SkipUnchangedFiles="true" />
  </Target>
```

### Build MSIX

1. In the terminal, move to the `<ExtensionName>\<ExtensionName>` directory.
1. Create an x64 build MSIX with the following command:

   ```powershell
   dotnet build --configuration Release -p:GenerateAppxPackageOnBuild=true -p:Platform=x64 -p:AppxPackageDir="AppPackages\x64\"

   ```

1. Create an ARM64 build MSIX with the following command:

   ```powershell
   dotnet build --configuration Release -p:GenerateAppxPackageOnBuild=true -p:Platform=ARM64 -p:AppxPackageDir="AppPackages\ARM64\"
   ```

> [!NOTE]

> > The `AppxPackageDir="AppPackages\x64\"` is needed so that the ARM64 build doesn't overwrite the x64 build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You need the `AppxPackageDir="AppPackages\x64\"` setting so that the ARM64 build doesn't overwrite the x64 build.
```

1. Locate the MSIX files:

   ```powershell

>    dir AppPackages -Recurse -Filter "*.msix"

Reviewer 5: [nit] some PWSH fragments use `ls`, some `dir`

Author: great catch, thank you

   ```

> [!TIP]

> > If you do not see your MSIX files, try `dir bin\ -Recurse -Filter "*.msix"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you don't see your MSIX files, try `dir bin\ -Recurse -Filter "*.msix"`.
```

   ```powershell
   makeappx bundle /v /d bin\Release\ /p <ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_Bundle.msixbundle
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If `makeappx` isn't recognized, find it on your machine:
   >
   > ```powershell
   > $arch = switch ($env:PROCESSOR_ARCHITECTURE) { "AMD64" { "x64" } "x86" { "x86" } "ARM64" { "arm64" } default { "x64" } }; Write-Host "Detected: $arch"; $found = Get-ChildItem "C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\10\bin\*\$arch\makeappx.exe" -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue | Sort-Object Name -Descending | Select-Object -First 1; if ($found) { Write-Host "SUCCESS: $($found.FullName)" -ForegroundColor Green; $found.FullName } else { Write-Host "Not found for $arch" -ForegroundColor Red }
   > ```
   >
   > Then update the following script your machine's path:
   >
   > ```powershell
   > & "<PATH>\makeappx.exe" bundle /f bundle_mapping.txt /p <ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_Bundle.msixbundle
   > ```

1. Locate the bundle:

   ```powershell
   ls *.msixbundle
   ```

1. You should find the file: `<ExtensionName>_<VersionNumber>_Bundle.msixbundle`.

#### MSIX build validation

Verify your MSIX build is ready by checking:

> - ✅ You've updated `Package.appxmanifest` with correct Identity and Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ✅ You updated `Package.appxmanifest` with correct Identity and Properties
```

> - ✅ You've updated `<ExtensionName>.csproj` with AppxPackage properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ✅ You updated `<ExtensionName>.csproj` with AppxPackage properties
```

- ✅ Both x64 and ARM64 MSIX files were built successfully
- ✅ The `bundle_mapping.txt` file contains correct paths to both MSIX files
- ✅ The `.msixbundle` file was created without errors
- ✅ You can locate the final bundle file

If any items are missing or failed, review the build commands and check for error messages before continuing.

### Microsoft Store submission

> 1. Navigate to the [Microsoft Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/home) and open your newly created extension project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Microsoft Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com/dashboard/home) and open your newly created extension project.
```

1. In **Packages**, upload the created MSIX bundle.
1. Complete the rest of the submission. The following suggestions can help you:
   1. In **Languages supported in packages**, under your supported language (for example, English (United States)), in **Description**, make sure to include `<ExtensionName> integrates with the Windows Command Palette to...`

>    1. In the left navigation, locate **Supplemental info** and select **Additional Testing Information**. Add instructions about needing Powertoys and Command Palette. Here's an [example](https://github.com/chatasweetie/CmdPalExtensions/blob/main/microsoftStoreResources/TesterInstructions.txt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. In the left navigation, locate **Supplemental info** and select **Additional Testing Information**. Add instructions about needing PowerToys and Command Palette. Here's an [example](https://github.com/chatasweetie/CmdPalExtensions/blob/main/microsoftStoreResources/TesterInstructions.txt).
```

1. Submit your extension to the store.

> After submission, Microsoft will review your extension for certification. Monitor your submission status in Partner Center and check for email notifications about approval. Once approved, your extension will be available in the Microsoft Store within a few hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After submission, Microsoft reviews your extension for certification. Monitor your submission status in Partner Center and check for email notifications about approval. Once approved, your extension is available in the Microsoft Store within a few hours.
```

## WinGet

> Publishing packages to WinGet is the recommended way to share your extensions with users. Extension packages that are listed on WinGet can be discovered and installed directly from Command Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To share your extensions with users, publish your packages to WinGet. Users can discover and install extension packages listed on WinGet directly from Command Palette.
```

> [!TIP]
> **What is WinGet?**

> > WinGet is Microsoft's open-source command-line package manager for Windows. It's similar to package managers like npm or pip, but for Windows applications. Publishing to WinGet allows users to install your extension with a simple `winget install` command and enables automatic discovery within Command Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> WinGet is Microsoft's open-source command-line package manager for Windows. It's similar to package managers like npm or pip, but for Windows applications. When you publish to WinGet, users can install your extension with a simple `winget install` command. It also enables automatic discovery within Command Palette.
```

Before submitting your manifest to WinGet, check the following two requirements:

**Add the `windows-commandpalette-extension` tag**

Command Palette uses the special `windows-commandpalette-extension` tag to discover extensions. Make sure that your manifest includes this tag so that Command Palette can discover your extension. Add the following code to each `.locale.*.yaml` file in your manifest:

```yaml
Tags:
- windows-commandpalette-extension
```

**Ensure WindowsAppSdk is listed as a dependency**

If you're using Windows App SDK, make sure that it's listed as a dependency of your package. Add the following code to your `.installer.yaml` manifest:

```yaml
Dependencies:
  PackageDependencies:
  - PackageIdentifier: Microsoft.WindowsAppRuntime.#.#
```

## Guide to WinGet publishing

> Publishing to WinGet is the recommended distribution method for Command Palette extensions as it enables automatic discovery and installation directly within Command Palette. This guide covers the majority of the WinGet publication process, from preparing your project and creating build scripts to setting up GitHub Actions automation and submitting your first package manifest. You'll learn how to create installer packages, configure automated builds, and navigate the WinGet submission workflow to make your extension easily discoverable and installable for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishing to WinGet is the recommended distribution method for Command Palette extensions. It enables automatic discovery and installation directly within Command Palette. This guide covers most of the WinGet publication process, from preparing your project and creating build scripts to setting up GitHub Actions automation and submitting your first package manifest. You'll learn how to create installer packages, configure automated builds, and navigate the WinGet submission workflow to make your extension easily discoverable and installable for users.
```

> Publishing to WinGet is the recommended distribution method for Command Palette extensions as it enables automatic discovery and installation directly within Command Palette. This guide covers the majority of the WinGet publication process, from preparing your project and creating build scripts to setting up GitHub Actions automation and submitting your first package manifest. You'll learn how to create installer packages, configure automated builds, and navigate the WinGet submission workflow to make your extension easily discoverable and installable for users.

Reviewer 3: Is it the recommended distribution method (long term)? @zadjii-msft ?

Reviewer 4: Long term... no. Short term? Totally. We still don't have a LOS on store extensions directly in the palette itself

Reviewer 5: We have [#41453](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/41453), which currently promotes extensions from the MS Store. I haven’t gotten around to implementing [#42216](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/42216) yet :'(

### Requirements

- [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)
- WingetCreate

    ```powershell
    # Install wingetcreate if not already installed
    winget install Microsoft.WingetCreate
    
    # Verify installation
    wingetcreate --version
    ```

### Prepare the project

1. In `<ExtensionName>.csproj`, from the `<PropertyGroup>`:
   - Remove `<PublishProfile>win-$(Platform).pubxml</PublishProfile>`
   - Add `<WindowsPackageType>None</WindowsPackageType>`
1. Locate `CLSID`
    1. Open the extension's main `.cs` file (for example, `<ExtensionName>.cs`).
    1. Look for the `[Guid("...")]` attribute above the class declaration.

>     1. This GUID is your CLSID - Keep note of this because it will be used in th next step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. This GUID is your CLSID - Keep note of this because it will be used in the next step
```

       ```csharp
       // Example from <ExtensionName>.cs
       [Guid("0ab5d8ab-b206-4023-99f0-97dde26e14f2")]  // This is the CLSID
       public sealed partial class <ExtensionName> : IExtension
       ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > **What is a CLSID?**
    > A CLSID (Class Identifier) is a unique identifier that Windows uses to identify COM (Component Object Model) components. Each Command Palette extension needs a unique CLSID so Windows can properly register and load your extension. This GUID is automatically generated when you create your extension project.

> 1. Make sure that your in the directory that contains your `<ExtensionName>.cs` for the next two files being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure that you're in the directory that contains your `<ExtensionName>.cs` for the next two files being created.
```

> 1. Create a `setup-template.iss` file, for a simple extension you can copy and customize the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `setup-template.iss` file. For a simple extension, you can copy and customize the following template:
```

; 2. Replace EXTENSION_NAME with your extension name (e.g., CmdPalMyExtension)
; 3. Replace DISPLAY_NAME with your extension's display name (e.g., My Extension)
; 4. Replace DEVELOPER_NAME with your name (e.g., Your Name Here)
; 5. Replace CLSID-HERE with extensions CLSID
; 6. Update the default version to match your project file

#define AppVersion "0.0.1.0"

[Setup]
AppId={{GUID-HERE}}
AppName=DISPLAY_NAME
AppVersion={#AppVersion}
AppPublisher=DEVELOPER_NAME
DefaultDirName={autopf}\EXTENSION_NAME
OutputDir=bin\Release\installer
OutputBaseFilename=EXTENSION_NAME-Setup-{#AppVersion}
Compression=lzma
SolidCompression=yes
MinVersion=10.0.19041

[Languages]
Name: "english"; MessagesFile: "compiler:Default.isl"

[Files]
Source: "bin\Release\win-x64\publish\*"; DestDir: "{app}"; Flags: ignoreversion recursesubdirs

[Icons]
Name: "{group}\DISPLAY_NAME"; Filename: "{app}\EXTENSION_NAME.exe"

[Registry]
Root: HKCU; Subkey: "SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\{{CLSID-HERE}}"; ValueData: "EXTENSION_NAME"
Root: HKCU; Subkey: "SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\{{CLSID-HERE}}\LocalServer32"; ValueData: "{app}\EXTENSION_NAME.exe -RegisterProcessAsComServer"
```

> 1. Create a `build-exe.ps1` file, for a simple extension you can copy and customize the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `build-exe.ps1` file. For a simple extension, you can copy and customize the following template:
```

    Write-Host "Creating $Platform installer with Inno Setup..." -ForegroundColor Yellow
    $InnoSetupPath = "${env:ProgramFiles(x86)}\Inno Setup 6\iscc.exe"
    if (-not (Test-Path $InnoSetupPath)) { 
        $InnoSetupPath = "${env:ProgramFiles}\Inno Setup 6\iscc.exe" 
    }

    if (Test-Path $InnoSetupPath) {
        & $InnoSetupPath "$ProjectDir\setup-$Platform.iss"
        
        if ($LASTEXITCODE -eq 0) {
            $installer = Get-ChildItem "$ProjectDir\bin\$Configuration\installer\*-$Platform.exe" -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue | Select-Object -First 1
            if ($installer) {
                $sizeMB = [math]::Round($installer.Length / 1MB, 2)
                Write-Host "✅ Created $Platform installer: $($installer.Name) ($sizeMB MB)" -ForegroundColor Green
            } else {
                Write-Warning "Installer file not found for $Platform"
            }
        } else {
            Write-Warning "Inno Setup failed for $Platform with exit code: $LASTEXITCODE"
        }
    } else {
        Write-Warning "Inno Setup not found at expected locations"
    }
}

Write-Host "`n🎉 Build completed successfully!" -ForegroundColor Green
```

> [!TIP]

> > You can test this locally by having [.NET 9](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0) and [Inno Setup](https://jrsoftware.org/isdl.php) installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can test this process locally by installing [.NET 9](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0) and [Inno Setup](https://jrsoftware.org/isdl.php).
```

>
> ```powershell
> # verify .Net 9 is installed
> dotnet --version
> 
> # verify Inno Setup is installed
> Test-Path "${env:ProgramFiles(x86)}\Inno Setup 6\iscc.exe"
>

> > # build installer, this will take a while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> # build installer, this step takes a while
```

> .\build-exe.ps1 -Version "0.0.1.0"
>
> # verify that <ExtensionName>-Setup-0.0.1.0.exe is listed
> Get-ChildItem "bin\Release\installer\" -File
> ```

### Automate with GitHub Actions

> [!NOTE]
> **What are GitHub Actions?**
> GitHub Actions is a CI/CD platform that automates software workflows directly in your GitHub repository. For Command Palette extensions, GitHub Actions can automatically build your installer whenever you push code changes, create releases, and even submit updates to WinGet - eliminating manual build steps and ensuring consistent, reproducible builds.

> Now we'll set up GitHub Actions to automate the build and release process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now set up GitHub Actions to automate the build and release process:
```

> 1. `cd ..` up a directory, you should be in the directory that contains `<ExtensionName>.sln`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `cd ..` to go up a directory. You should be in the directory that contains `<ExtensionName>.sln`.
```

> 1. create a new repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new repo.
```

          
          ## 📦 Installation
          
          Download the installer for your system architecture:
          
          - **x64 (Intel/AMD)**: `${{ env.DISPLAY_NAME }}-Setup-${{ steps.version.outputs.VERSION }}-x64.exe`
          - **ARM64 (Windows on ARM)**: `${{ env.DISPLAY_NAME }}-Setup-${{ steps.version.outputs.VERSION }}-arm64.exe`
          
          1. Download the appropriate installer from the Assets section below
          2. Run the installer with administrator privileges
          3. The extension will be registered and available in Command Palette
          
          
          ## 🔗 More Information
          
          Repository: ${{ env.GITHUB_REPO_URL }}
        files: ${{ env.FOLDER_NAME }}/bin/Release/installer/*.exe
        draft: false
        prerelease: false
      env:
        GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    
    - name: Build summary
      run: |
        Write-Host "🎉 ${{ env.DISPLAY_NAME }} Release Complete!" -ForegroundColor Green
        Write-Host "Version: ${{ steps.version.outputs.VERSION }}" -ForegroundColor Yellow
        Write-Host "📁 Installer uploaded to GitHub Release" -ForegroundColor Green
      shell: pwsh
```

> This file is a Github Action scrip that does the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file is a GitHub Action script that does the following tasks:
```

- Setup (.NET, Inno Setup)
- Get Version (simple version detection)
- Build App (straightforward dotnet publish)
- Create Installer (simple Inno Setup call)
- Upload Results (clear artifact + release steps)

> 1. Update the placeholders in `release-extension.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the placeholders in `release-extension.yml`.
```

> 1. git commit the 3 new files: `build-exe.ps1`, `setup.iss`,`release-extension.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Commit the three new files: `build-exe.ps1`, `setup.iss`, and `release-extension.yml`.
```

> 1. Push changes to Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Push changes to GitHub.
```

1. Trigger the GitHub Action:

   ```powershell
   gh workflow run release-extension.yml --ref main -f create_release=true -f "release_notes= **First Release of <ExtensionName> Extension for Command Palette**
   The inaugural release of the <ExtensionName> for Command Palette..."
   ```

#### GitHub Actions validation

Verify your GitHub Actions setup by checking:

- ✅ GitHub Action workflow runs successfully without errors
- ✅ Installer EXE is created and uploaded to GitHub Release

**Typical build time**: 5-10 minutes for the GitHub Action to complete.

### WinGet submission

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > The first submission must be manual. `wingetcreate new` requires interactive input for package details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You must manually submit the first version. `wingetcreate new` requires interactive input for package details.
```

#### Manual first submission

1. Activate interactive wingetcreate:

   ```powershell
   # Use your actual GitHub release URLs 
   wingetcreate new "<PATH TO x64 .exe file>" "<PATH TO arm64 .exe file>"
   ```

   > [!TIP]
   > To get the GitHub Release URL: Go to your release page, under **Assets**, right-click the `.exe` file and select "Copy link address".

> 1. When `wingetcreate` prompts you, press **Enter** if the suggested response is pulled from the EXE file, for example: `PackageIdentifier`, `PackageVersion`, `Publisher`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When `wingetcreate` prompts you, press **Enter** if the suggested response is pulled from the EXE file, for example: `PackageIdentifier`, `PackageVersion`, `Publisher`, and so on.
```

   - **For optional modification questions**, answer **No**:
     - "Would you like to modify the optional default locale fields?" → **No**
     - "Would you like to modify the optional installer fields?" → **No**
     - "Would you like to make changes to this manifest?" → **No**
   - **Final submission question**:
     - "Would you like to submit your manifest to the Windows Package Manager repository?" → **Yes**

> After answering "Yes" to submit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you answer "Yes" to submit:
```

- `wingetcreate` forks the microsoft/winget-pkgs repository to your GitHub account
- Creates a new branch with your package manifests
- Opens a pull request automatically
- Provides the PR URL for tracking

> After submitting your pull request, the WinGet team will review your manifest for compliance and accuracy. You can monitor the PR status on GitHub and respond to any feedback from reviewers. Once approved and merged, your extension will be available through WinGet within a few hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you submit your pull request, the WinGet team reviews your manifest for compliance and accuracy. You can monitor the PR status on GitHub and respond to any feedback from reviewers. Once approved and merged, your extension is available through WinGet within a few hours.
```
